## How can I run testnet?

**Testnet** is a copy of the Bitcoin network where *coins have no value*. It is ideal for testing wallets and transactions, and it’s use is highly recommended. The simplest way to start Sparrow using **testnet** is via the `Tools > Restart in Testnet` menu command. This will close Sparrow, and restart it with a separate testnet configuration in the `testnet` folder in Sparrow home. Each time that we want to start in **testnet** we need to do the same configuration, if not we will be in **mainnet**

After, if we decide to return to **mainnet**, we will do the opposite `Tools > Restart in Mainnet`

## Command line: Advanced

It’s also possible to run Sparrow from the command line (or set up an equivalent shortcut). Sparrow has a number of command line options, for example to change its home folder or use testnet:

```
Usage: Sparrow [options]
  Options:
    --dir, -d
      Path to Sparrow home folder
    --help, -h
      Show usage
    --level, -l
      Set log level
      Possible Values: [ERROR, WARN, INFO, DEBUG, TRACE]      
    --network, -n
      Network to use
      Possible Values: [mainnet, testnet, regtest, signet]
    --terminal, -t
      Terminal mode
      Default: false
    --version, -v
      Show version
      Default: false
```

For example:

OSX:

```bash
> open /Applications/Sparrow.app --args -n testnet
```

Linux:

```bash
> Sparrow/bin/Sparrow -n testnet
```

Windows:

```bash
> Sparrow.exe -n testnet
```

As a fallback, the network (mainnet, testnet, regtest or signet) can also be set using an environment variable `SPARROW_NETWORK`. For example:

```bash
> export SPARROW_NETWORK=testnet
```

A final fallback which can be useful when running the Sparrow binary is to create a file called `network-testnet` in the Sparrow home folder (see below) to configure the testnet network.

Note that if you are connecting to an Electrum server when using testnet, that server will need to be running on testnet configuration as well.

When not explicitly configured using the command line argument above, Sparrow stores its mainnet config file, log file and wallets in a home folder location appropriate to the operating system.

Testnet, regtest and signet configurations (along with their wallets) are stored in subfolders of Sparrow’s home folder to allow easy switching between networks.

Once Sparrow is running in testnet, you will need to connect it to server or node that is also configured for testnet. A public testnet server is configurable from the Server Preferences tab.

Finally, you can receive free testnet bitcoin from a Bitcoin Testnet Faucet like [mempool](https://testnet-faucet.mempool.co/).

#### SOURCE
- [Sparrow Official docs](https://sparrowwallet.com/docs/faq.html#how-can-i-run-testnet)